BR: Update backup-and-restore-tool.md (#2664)
pingcap/docs: br/backup-and-restore-tool.md

Back up all the cluster data to the `/tmp/backup` path of each TiKV node and write the `backupmeta` file to this path.

> **Note:**
> 

> > + If the backup disk and the service disk are different, it has been tested that online backup reduces QPS of the read-only online service by about 15%-25% in case of full-speed backup. If you want to reduce the impact on QPS, use `--ratelimit` to limit the rate.

Author: @ran-huang I was wondering whether the style guide for Chinese differs from that for English. Google style guide suggest [Use a hyphen with no space either side of it](https://developers.google.com/style/numbers#ranges-of-numbers)

A progress bar is displayed in the terminal during the backup operation. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the backup is complete. Then the BR also checks the backup data to ensure data safety.

### Back up data to Amazon S3 backend

If you back up the data to the Amazon S3 backend, instead of `local` storage, you need to specify the S3 storage path in the `storage` sub-command, and allow the BR node and the TiKV node to access to Amazon S3.

You can refer to an [AWS Official Document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/create-bucket.html) to create an S3 `Bucket` in the specified `Region`. You can also refer to another [AWS Official Document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/create-folder.html) to create a `Folder` in the `Bucket`.

Pass `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account that has permission to access the S3 backend to the BR node. Here `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` are passed as environment variables. And then pass the permission to the TiKV node through BR.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${AccessKey}
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${SecretKey}
```

> When backing up using BR, explicitly specify the parameters `--s3.region` and `--send-credentials-to-tikv`. `--s3.region` indicates the region where S3 is located, and `--send-credentials-to-tikv` means passing the privilege to access S3 to the TiKV node.

Author: done

```

### Back up incremental data

If you want to back up incrementally, you only need to specify the **last backup timestamp** `--lastbackupts`.

The following are some limitations of the incremental backup:

- The incremental backup needs to be under a different path from the previous full backup.
- No GC (Garbage Collection) happens between the start time of the incremental backup and `lastbackupts`.

Execute the following command to back up the incremental data between `(LAST_BACKUP_TS, current PD timestamp)`:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br backup full\
    --pd ${PDIP}:2379 \
    -s local:///home/tidb/backupdata/incr \
    --lastbackupts ${LAST_BACKUP_TS}
```

Execute the `validate` command to get the timestamp of the last backup. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
LAST_BACKUP_TS=`br validate decode --field="end-version" -s local:///home/tidb/backupdata`
```

In the above example, the incremental backup data includes the written data and the DDLs between `(LAST_BACKUP_TS, current PD timestamp]`. When restoring data, BR restores DDLs first, and then restore the written data.

### Back up Raw KV (experimental feature)

> **Warning:**
> 

> > This feature is in the experiment, without being thoroughly tested. It is highly **not recommended** to use this feature in the production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This feature is experimental and not thoroughly tested. It is highly **not recommended** to use this feature in the production environment.
```

In some scenarios, TiKV might run independently of TiDB. Given that, BR also supports bypassing the TiDB layer and backing up data in TiKV.

> For example, you can execute the following command to back up all keys between `[0x31, 0x3130303030303030)` of the default CF to `$BACKUP_DIR`:

Reviewer: IMO, since CF = column family, `in` might be better.
```suggestion
For example, you can execute the following command to back up all keys between `[0x31, 0x3130303030303030)` in the default CF to `$BACKUP_DIR`:
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br backup raw --pd $PD_ADDR \
    -s "local://$BACKUP_DIR" \
    --start 31 \
    --end 3130303030303030 \
    --format hex \
    --cf default
```

Here, the parameters of `--start`  and `--end` are decoded using the method specified by `--format` before being sent to TiKV. Currently, the following methods are available:

- "raw": The input string is directly encoded as a key in binary format.

> - "hex": The default encoding method. The input string is seen as a hexadecimal number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "hex": The default encoding method. The input string is treated as a hexadecimal number.
```

    --log-file restorefull.log
```

In the above command, `--table` specifies the name of the table to be restored. For descriptions of other options, see [Restore all backup data](#restore-all-the-backup-data) and [Restore a database](#restore-a-database).

### Restore data from Amazon S3 backend

> If you restore data from the Amazon S3 backend, instead of `local` storage, you need to specify the S3 storage path in the `storage` sub-command, and allow the BR node and the TiKV node to access to Amazon S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you restore data from the Amazon S3 backend, instead of `local` storage, you need to specify the S3 storage path in the `storage` sub-command, and allow the BR node and the TiKV node to access Amazon S3.
```

> Pass `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account that has permission to access the S3 backend to the BR node. Here `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` are passed as environment variables. And then pass the permission to the TiKV node through BR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pass `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account that has permission to access the S3 backend to the BR node. Here `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` are passed as environment variables. Then pass the permission to the TiKV node through BR.
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${AccessKey}
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${SecretKey}
```

When restoring data using BR, explicitly specify the parameters `--s3.region` and `--send-credentials-to-tikv`. `--s3.region` indicates the region where S3 is located, and `--send-credentials-to-tikv` means passing the privilege to access S3 to the TiKV node.

`Bucket` and `Folder` in the `--storage` parameter represent the S3 bucket and the folder where the data to be restored is located.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br restore full \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://${Bucket}/${Folder}" \
    --s3.region "${region}" \
    --send-credentials-to-tikv=true \
    --log-file restorefull.log
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the above command, `--table` specifies the name of the table to be restored. For descriptions of other options, see [Restore a database](#restore-a-database).

```

### Restore incremental data

Restoring incremental data is similar to [restoring full data using BR](#restore-all-the-backup-data). Note that when restoring incremental data, make sure that all the data backed up before `last backup ts` has been restored to the target cluster.

### Restore Raw KV (experimental feature)

> **Warning:**
> 
> This feature is in the experiment, without being thoroughly tested. It is highly **not recommended** to use this feature in the production environment.

Similar to [backing up Rwa KV](#back-up-raw-kv-experimental-feature), you can execute the following command to restore Raw KV:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

br restore raw --pd $PD_ADDR \
    -s "local://$BACKUP_DIR" \
    --start 31 \
    --end 3130303030303030 \
    --format hex \
    --cf default

> In the above example. all the backed up keys in the range `[0x31, 0x3130303030303030)` are restored to the TiKV cluster. The coding methods of these keys are identical to that of [keys during the backup process](#back-up-raw-kv-experimental-feature)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, all the backed up keys in the range `[0x31, 0x3130303030303030)` are restored to the TiKV cluster. The coding methods of these keys are identical to that of [keys during the backup process](#back-up-raw-kv-experimental-feature)
```

### Online restore (experimental feature)

> **Warning:**
> 

> > This feature is in the experiment, without being thoroughly tested. It also relies on the unstable `Placement Rules` of PD. It is highly **not recommended** to use this feature in the production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This feature is in the experiment, without being thoroughly tested. It also relies on the unstable `Placement Rules` feature of PD. It is highly **not recommended** to use this feature in the production environment.
```

> During data restoration, writing too much data affects the performance of the online cluster. To avoid this effect as much as possible, BR supports [Placement rules](/configure-placement-rules.md) to isolate resources. In this case, downloading and importing SST are only performed on a few specified nodes (or "restore nodes" for short). Take the following steps to complete the online restore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During data restoration, writing too much data affects the performance of the online cluster. To avoid this effect as much as possible, BR supports [Placement rules](/configure-placement-rules.md) to isolate resources. In this case, downloading and importing SST are only performed on a few specified nodes (or "restore nodes" for short). To complete the online restore, take the following step.
```

`Bucket` and `Folder` in the `--storage` parameter represent the S3 bucket and the folder where the data to be restored is located.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
br restore full \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://${Bucket}/${Folder}" \
    --s3.region "${region}" \
    --send-credentials-to-tikv=true \
    --log-file restorefull.log
```

In the above command, `--table` specifies the name of the table to be restored. For descriptions of other options, see [Restore a database](#restore-a-database).

### Restore incremental data

Restoring incremental data is similar to [restoring full data using BR](#restore-all-the-backup-data). Note that when restoring incremental data, make sure that all the data backed up before `last backup ts` has been restored to the target cluster.

### Restore Raw KV (experimental feature)

> **Warning:**
> 
> This feature is in the experiment, without being thoroughly tested. It is highly **not recommended** to use this feature in the production environment.

> Similar to [backing up Rwa KV](#back-up-raw-kv-experimental-feature), you can execute the following command to restore Raw KV:

Reviewer 2: a typo.

```suggestion
Similar to [backing up Raw KV](#back-up-raw-kv-experimental-feature), you can execute the following command to restore Raw KV:
```
